In Unit 1 of this course
you will learn a variety of strategies
for answering the question
"What makes a quality website?"
After all, before we can plunge into
creating our own sites
it's important to do a bit of planning first.
And in this unit, we'll be developing a set of
criteria to help guide our creation.
Now, we've all experienced websites that we feel
are well designed...
And those that aren't...
But what makes some websites better than others?
First off, good quality websites use color
effectively.
Effective use of color can entail everything from
the selection of an appropriate color scheme
to making sure that those with color-related visual
impairments can still use your site effectively.
Good quality websites follow web standards so
that they work equally well across browsers...
platforms...
and monitor resolutions.
In this unit, you'll learn about the different
standards put forth by the World Wide Web Consortium
that we'll be following for the rest of this course.
Good quality websites are accessible to
individuals with disabilities.
[Screen Reader] For example, is the web site optimized
so that a blind person can easily read, navigate, and
operate the website
using a text-to-speech screen reader
application?
[Narrator] If a site contains audio or video, does it also offer
transcripts or captioning to help make that
content accessible to individuals
who are deaf or hard of hearing?
In this unit, you'll have the chance to view
some videos of people with disabilities and the
everyday challenges they face in accessing
information on the web.
And finally, good quality websites are well-
structured and well-planned.
This unit is designed to get you thinking about
your site's organizational framework.
When planning the site's structure, you'll need to
think about the needs of your particular audience.
After all, the design of an entertainment site will
differ drastically from that of an e-commerce site
or an educational site like this one.
After establishing the target audience,
it's time to sketch out the actual structure,
such as the hierarchy of pages
that branch out from the home page.
One way to approach this task is to
invite members of your target audience
to do a card sorting activity
where each card includes a topic
covered on your website.
Your users may have very different perspectives than you
about how they expect
your site's content to be organized.
One key takeaway from this unit
is that every audience is diverse,
and it's important when designing a website
to plan ahead
so your site will be usable and
effective for anyone who visits it.